Our great teacher Buddha said, one of the, in his teachings, he said, "All noble ones, sun is
shining, beautiful, and the farmers are harvested, crows are singing, and the robbers are crying."
He said, "What that means?" He said, "And the life is so beautiful, you spread time." He said, "
Everything is beautiful, you spread time."
Sun is shining, means Buddha came, and Buddha taught the teaching, and the teaching is widely
spread right in our hand reach, right here. That means the sun is shining.
And the teaching often said, there's many times that Buddha did not came, even Buddha came,
sometimes Buddha did not give the teaching for many years, for many years that happened.
But Buddha came, this wall, and he turned the wheel of Dharma, light is beautiful, shining
everywhere, and for our convenience, for our purposes.
And because of that, the farmers are busy to harvesting or growing. That means all those who had
the great, joyful effort, devotion, used their best effort to actualizing, to bring the realization
of harvesting the merits, all the merits of their gathering.
And crows are crying, with all those many people, Sangha members, are practicing, meditating, rec
iting the suttas, suttara teachings, all the blessings.
And because of that, the robbers are crying, means all the ego-clinging, negative emotions are
crying, they are not winning.
And that's what it means. And therefore, he said, all noble ones, use time, enjoy, appreciate. That
's the Vinaya teaching, Buddha said.
This is what we have. We all have good things. Everything, every situation, every circumstances,
both in samsara and in nirvana, we have enough. We have more than enough. We have good. Everything
good.
When you look to the area around the world, read the news, watch the channels, how many things are
going on, and on, and on, and look to us, how ourself is living, our standard of living.
All this. And therefore, both samsara level and dharma level, we have every good thing. It is
beautiful. It is our beautiful kind that we collected in the past, and then it is frightening.
So therefore, joy and devotion and appreciation and bodhicata, and those are so important. We are
not just self-kind of like self-important oriented beings.
We are opening our heart to all the beings, which is known as Buddha teaching. Bodhicata, opening
our heart to all the beings, we thank them the best to everyone.
Every our intention and direction and prayers, even we do the worst prayers, we wish that thought
to all the beings, sincerely from the heart. This is what the great teacher Buddha taught us. It is
not something we are smart, we know that.
We know it is a good thing to do, but why we open it? The magnitude, what we open our heart, deep
in our collet, is because the wise world of our great teacher, Buddha Shaktamuni, and all the
lineage masters, continue the past, that openness, that wisdom, that beautiful colletus, we are on
that roller-coast, we are on that path.
It is wonderful, it is beautiful, how precious it is.
And therefore, as I said, as our great teacher, Kainji Bodhicara, what he used to always say, "Res
identing the bodhicata, joy and devotion bodhicata."
It is not just only him, and I read this in many books, and I heard from many great masters, and
even the simple practitioners, low-key practitioners, that is what they taught us.
So this is our whole mark, wholesome mark, mark that we are trying to retrieve from that, re-glor
ify that colletus, and stay firmly on that ground, then pursue again this teaching that will glorify
more about what we are already, and what we are already known, what we are already practicing.
It is glorify, it is strengthening, and deepening, and moving forward, and that is what is
important.
With this understanding, and now, again, I will talk continually where we started yesterday.